# Reasoning on Context-Dependent Domain Models (Supplementary Material)

Supplementary material for the JIST 2017 publication *"Reasoning on Context-Dependent Domain Models"*.

## Getting the Running Example, Reproduceable Benchmark, and Dataset

Simply clone the repository using git.

~~~{.bash}
git clone https://github.com/ElCattivo13/JIST17-ConDL
cd JIST17-ConDL
~~~

The repository already includes the JConHT reasoner, in the version used in the publication.

## Running Example

The [Example](Example/) folder contains the example domain model of the banking application, as well as the corresponding ConDL ontology:

* `Bank.crom_dia`, the visual representation of the *Banking* domain model (can be opened by FRaMED).
* `Bank.crom`, the corresponding structural representation of the *Banking* domain model.
* `Bank.owl`, the OWL representation of the ConDL ontology of the Bank domain model.

To open the visual representation of the banking application, you need to install and use the [FRaMED](https://github.com/leondart/FRaMED) role modeling editor. Regardless, you can still execute the transformation and the reasoner via commandline, as follows:

~~~{.bash}
$> cd Example
$> java -jar org.rosi.crom.toformal.cli.jar -towl Bank.crom > Bank.owl
$> java -jar JConHT.jar Bank.owl -v
~~~

This schould result in a message `The context ontology is not consistent`.

## Reproduceable Benchmark

To be able to reproduce our benchmark, we provide a collection of bash scripts to benchmark the individual configurations.

* For each configuration there is a dedicated folder in the [Benchmark](Benchmark/) directory containing:
    * `JConHT.jar`, the Java Contextualized Hyper Tableau reasoner
    * `org.rosi.crom.benchmark.jar`, the CROM model generator 
    * `org.rosi.crom.toformal.cli.jar`, a commandline model transformator used to translate CROM models to ConDL ontologies
    * `run.sh`, a dedicated shell script performing the benchmark, i.e., generate CROM model, transform to ConDL ontology, reason on ontology.
    
The benchmark can be executed in any Linux system, using the following commands:
    
~~~{.bash}
$> cd Benchmark/
~~~

Pick a configuration to benchmark and change to this directory, then execute:

~~~{.bash}
$> ./run.sh
~~~

This script will create the CROM models, ConDL ontologies and Results of the Reasoner, as well as produce the measurements of the execution times for each step. In particular, it creates folders for each model complexity starting from `5` up to a defined upper bound. This bound can be easily modified by editing the `run.sh` script.

## Results of the Performance Benchmark

The results of our performance benchmark have been collected in the [Dataset](Dataset/) folder.

* For each configuration there is a dedicated folder in the [Dataset](Dataset/) directory containing:
    * For each Number *n*, there is a dedicated subdirectory
        * `benchmark.csv`, execution times of the model generator
        * `transform.csv`, execution times of the model transformation mapping CROM to ConDL
        * `reason.csv`, execution times of the JConHT reasoner
    * `models.csv`, collects the properties of the CROM domain models generated by the benchmark
